# Deepfake Technology and Its Danger to Our Interaction with Media
In this document, I discuss two articles about the dangers of deepfake technology, its current uses, and the legal questions it will raise in the very near future. I present two articles with differing viewpoints on the subject. 

**## Where Are The Deepfakes in This Presidential Election?**
In NPR's '[_Where Are The Deepfakes in This Presidential Election?_](https://www.npr.org/2020/10/01/918223033/where-are-the-deepfakes-in-this-presidential-election)', writer Tim Mak explores reasoning behind the lack of deepfake usage in the 2020 United States presidential election. 

Despite fears that deepfakes would further blur truth and fiction this election season, it turns out that deepfake technology is not necessary in fulfilling the objective of distributing disinformation because simpler methods are still incredibly effective. Methods such as video splicing, taking information out of context, and baseless falsehood are proving to be capabale methods for disseminating disinformation. If the less resource intensive methods for creating disinformation get the job done, then it does not make sense to apply the more resource intensive alternative. The situation can best be summarized with the following quote from the article: "'You can think of deepfake as the bazooka and the video splicing as a slingshot. And it turns out the slingshot works.'"  

Overall, I believe that deepfake technology is a definite danger to the future of news media, however; I do not think that deepfake technology is an immediate threat due to how easy it is to use software solutions to identify deepfake materials. In order for deepfake technology to be an apocalyptic issue, it must be the case that our ability to identify deepfakes is not up to par with deepfake generation. Our deepfake creation algorithms must be more complex than our deepfake identification algorithms. If anything, deepfakes represent a very real threat in their potential to lead society into a dark dystopian technocratic future. To save ourselves from such a future, we can only hope the technological game of cat and mouse reamins in our favor. 

**## Deepfakes Are Going To Wreak Havoc On Society. We Are Not Prepared.**
In Forbes' '[_Deepfakes Are Going To Wreak Havoc On Society. We Are Not Prepared._](https://www.forbes.com/sites/robtoews/2020/05/25/deepfakes-are-going-to-wreak-havoc-on-society-we-are-not-prepared/?sh=3756f4ee7494)', Rob Toews explores the threat that deepfake technology poses and the rising prevalence of the technology. 

Rob presents the accurate reality that footage generated with deepfake technology is still not to par with general video generated footage, however, he also points to the fact that innovation in the deepfake generation process has been almost parabolic. The technology is being made more accessible and less computation intensive. Continuing on this course, deepfakes could very well become as simple to create as a snapchat filter. 

Currently deepfakes are predominatly used in pornography, introducing traditional stars such as Emma Watson and Willem Dafoe into their pornographic debuts through the imitation of their facial likenesses onto pornographic actors. This further raises questions into data privacy. Do the actors own their procedurally generated likeness or the performance therein? Deepfakes raise some interesting issues, and the legality of deepfakes will have to be arbitrated regardless of whether or not the technology is used nefariously. 